= Roles and Permissions for Konflux

Konflux uses Kubernetes for managing user permissions and roles. Roles are mapped to specific permissions in the Kubernetes RBAC system, in terms of API groups, verbs, and resources.

Leveraging the Kubernetes RBAC system enhances the
testability of Konflux, including the ability to use the well-documented and widely-used Kubernetes APIs for testing and validation.

The following are the Konflux user roles:

* *Viewer:* Members who are mainly interested in CI results.

* *Contributor:* Members who interact with the workspace mostly through
pull requests.

* *Maintainer:* Members who manage the workspace without
access to sensitive or destructive actions. 

* *Admin:* Members who have full access to the workspace including sensitive and potentially destruction actions.

== Configuring Roles and Permissions for Konflux
To configure roles and permissions in Konflux, you use two yaml files. 


Model your yaml files according to xref:xxxxxxxx[these example files].

== Roles and Permissions Table

The following table lists:

* Roles
* Permissions
* API Groups
* Verbs
* Resources


[cols=",,,,",options="header",]
|===
|Role |Permissions |API Groups |Verbs |Resources
|Viewer |Workspace |Access to namespaces that backs workspace |  | 

|  |Application |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |applications

| |Component |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |components,
componentdetectionqueries

|  |ImageRepository |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|imagerepositories

|  |Environment |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |promotionruns,
snapshotenvironmentbindings, snapshots, environments

|  |DeploymentTarget |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|deploymenttargets

|  |DeploymentTargetClaim |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|deploymenttargetclaims

|  |_GitOps_ |managed-gitops.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|gitopsdeployments, gitopsdeploymentmanagedenvironments,
gitopsdeploymentrepositorycredentials, gitopsdeploymentsyncruns

|  |PipelineRun |tekton.dev |get, list, watch |pipelineruns

|  |Pipeline Results |results.tekton.dev |get, list |results, records,
logs

|  |IntegrationTestScenario |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|integrationtestscenarios

|  |Enterprise contract |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|enterprisecontractpolicies

|  |_Release Service_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |releases,
releaseplans, releaseplanadmissions

|  |_JVM Build Service_ |jvmbuildservice.io |get, list, watch
|jbsconfigs, artifactbuilds

|  |_Service Access_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|spiaccesstokenbindings, spiaccesschecks, spiaccesstokens,
spifilecontentrequests

|  |_Remote Secrets_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|remotesecrets

|  |Build Service |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|buildpipelineselectors

|  |Project Controller |projctl.konflux.dev |get, list, watch |projects,
projectdevelopmentstreams, projectdevelopmentstreamtemplates

|  |_Configs_ |  |get, list, watch |configmaps

|  |_Secrets_ |  |  |secrets

|  |Add User |  |  | 

|  |User group (with SSO) |  |  | 

|  |CronJob |batch |get, list, watch |cronjobs, jobs

|Contributor |Workspace |Access to namespaces that backs workspace |  | 

|  |Application |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |applications

|  |Component |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |components,
componentdetectionqueries

|  |ImageRepository |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|imagerepositories

|  |Environment |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |promotionruns,
snapshotenvironmentbindings, snapshots, environments

|  |DeploymentTarget |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|deploymenttargets

|  |DeploymentTargetClaim |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|deploymenttargetclaims

|  |_GitOps_ |managed-gitops.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|gitopsdeployments, gitopsdeploymentmanagedenvironments,
gitopsdeploymentrepositorycredentials, gitopsdeploymentsyncruns

|  |PipelineRun |tekton.dev |get, list, watch |pipelineruns

|  |Pipeline Results |results.tekton.dev |get, list |results, records,
logs

|  |IntegrationTestScenario |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|integrationtestscenarios

|  |Enterprise contract |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|enterprisecontractpolicies

|  |_Release Service_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |releases,
releaseplans, releaseplanadmissions

|  |_JVM Build Service_ |jvmbuildservice.io |get, list, watch
|jbsconfigs, artifactbuilds

|  |_Service Access_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|spiaccesstokenbindings, spiaccesschecks, spiaccesstokens,
spifilecontentrequests

|  |_Remote Secrets_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|remotesecrets

|  |Build Service |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|buildpipelineselectors

|  |Project Controller |projctl.konflux.dev |get, list, watch |projects,
projectdevelopmentstreams, projectdevelopmentstreamtemplates

|  |_Configs_ |  |get, list, watch |configmaps

|  |_Secrets_ |  |  |secrets

|  |Pulp Access Controller |pulp.konflux-ci.dev |get, list, watch
|pulpaccessrequests

|  |Add User |  |  | 

|  |User group (with SSO) |  |  | 

|  |CronJob |batch |get, list, watch |cronjobs, jobs

|  |RoleBinding |rbac.authorization.k8s.io |get, list |rolebindings

|Maintainer |Workspace |Access to namespaces that backs workspace |  | 

|  |Application |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create, update,
patch |applications, snapshots

|  |Component |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create, update,
patch |components, componentdetectionqueries

|  |ImageRepository |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch |imagerepositories

|  |Environment |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch |promotionruns,
snapshotenvironmentbindings, environments

|  |DeploymentTarget |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|deploymenttargets

|  |DeploymentTargetClaim |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|deploymenttargetclaims

|  |_GitOps_ |managed-gitops.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|gitopsdeployments, gitopsdeploymentmanagedenvironments,
gitopsdeploymentrepositorycredentials, gitopsdeploymentsyncruns

|  |PipelineRun |tekton.dev |get, list, watch |pipelineruns

|  |Pipeline Results |results.tekton.dev |get, list |results, records,
logs

|  |IntegrationTestScenario |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch, delete |integrationtestscenarios

|  |Enterprise contract |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|enterprisecontractpolicies

|  |_Release Service_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |releases, releaseplans, releaseplanadmissions

|  |_JVM Build Service_ |jvmbuildservice.io |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch |jbsconfigs, artifactbuilds

|  |_Service Access_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch |spiaccesstokenbindings, spiaccesschecks, spiaccesstokens,
spifilecontentrequests, spiaccesstokendataupdates

|  |_Remote Secrets_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|remotesecrets

|  |Build Service |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create
|buildpipelineselectors

|  |Project Controller |projctl.konflux.dev |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch |projects, projectdevelopmentstreams,
projectdevelopmentstreamtemplates

|  |_Configs_ |  |get, list, watch |configmaps

|  |_Secrets_ |  |  |secrets

|  |Pulp Access Controller |pulp.konflux-ci.dev |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch |pulpaccessrequests

|  |Add User |  |  | 

|  |User group (with SSO) |  |  | 

|  |CronJob |batch |get, list, watch, create, update, patch |cronjobs,
jobs

|  |RoleBinding |rbac.authorization.k8s.io |get, list |rolebindings

|Admin |Workspace |Access to namespaces that backs workspace |  | 

|  |Application |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create, update,
patch, delete, deletecollection |applications

|  |Component |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create, update,
patch, delete, deletecollection |components, componentdetectionqueries

|  |ImageRepository |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete, deletecollection |imagerepositories

|  |Environment |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create, update,
patch, delete |promotionruns, snapshotenvironmentbindings, snapshots,
environments

|  |DeploymentTarget |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |deploymenttargets

|  |DeploymentTargetClaim |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch, delete |deploymenttargetclaims

|  |_GitOps_ |managed-gitops.redhat.com |get, list, watch
|gitopsdeployments, gitopsdeploymentmanagedenvironments,
gitopsdeploymentrepositorycredentials, gitopsdeploymentsyncruns

|  |PipelineRun |tekton.dev |get, list, watch, create, update, patch,
delete |pipelineruns

|  |Pipeline Results |results.tekton.dev |get, list |results, records,
logs

|  |IntegrationTestScenario |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch, delete |integrationtestscenarios

|  |Enterprise contract |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |enterprisecontractpolicies

|  |_Release Service_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |releases, releaseplans, releaseplanadmissions

|  |Release Admission Plan |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch, delete |releaseplanadmissions

|  |_JVM Build Service_ |jvmbuildservice.io |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |jbsconfigs, artifactbuilds

|  |_Service Access_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |spiaccesstokenbindings, spiaccesschecks,
spiaccesstokens,spifilecontentrequests, spiaccesstokendataupdates

|  |_Remote Secrets_ |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |remotesecrets

|  |Build Service |appstudio.redhat.com |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |buildpipelineselectors

|  |Project Controller |projctl.konflux.dev |get, list, watch, create,
update, patch, delete |projects, projectdevelopmentstreams,
projectdevelopmentstreamtemplates

|  |_Configs_ |  |get, list, watch, create, update, patch, delete
|configmaps

|  |_Secrets_ |  |get, list, watch, create, update, patch, delete
|secrets

|  |_Exec to pods_ |  |create |pods/exec

|  |Pulp Access Controller |pulp.konflux-ci.dev |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch |pulpaccessrequests

|  |SpaceBindingRequest |toolchain.dev.openshift.com |get, list, watch,
create, update, patch, delete |spacebindingrequests

|  |Add User |  |  | 

|  |User group (with SSO) |  |  | 

|  |CronJob |batch |get, list, watch, create, update, patch, delete
|cronjobs, jobs

|  |RoleBinding |rbac.authorization.k8s.io |get, list, create, update,
patch, delete |rolebindings, roles

|  |ServiceAccount |  |get, list, create, update, patch, delete
|serviceaccounts

|  |Token |  |create |serviceaccounts/token
|===

=== Consequences

* This decision will allow us to easily integrate with the Kubernetes
environment and take advantage of its robust and well-tested RBAC
system.



* It will also allow us to assign the appropriate level of permissions
to each role, based on the responsibilities and privileges associated
with each role in our project.



* 
* 

Using the built-in Kubernetes RBAC system may require some initial
configuration and setup. 


